THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, 1973 (Selected Key Sections)

Section 41. When police may arrest without warrant.
(1) Any police officer may without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person-
(a) who has been concerned in any cognizable offence, or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made...
(b) against whom a reasonable complaint has been made...

Section 57. Person arrested not to be detained more than twenty-four hours.
No police officer shall detain in custody a person arrested without warrant for a longer period than under all the circumstances of the case is reasonable, and such period shall not, in the absence of a special order of a Magistrate under section 167, exceed twenty-four hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate's Court.

Section 125. Order for maintenance of wives, children and parents.
(1) If any person having sufficient means neglects or refuses to maintain-
(a) his wife, unable to maintain herself, or
(b) his legitimate or illegitimate minor child...
a Magistrate of the first class may, upon proof of such neglect or refusal, order such person to make a monthly allowance...

Section 154. Information in cognizable cases (First Information Report - FIR).
(1) Every information relating to the commission of a cognizable offence, if given orally to an officer in charge of a police station, shall be reduced to writing by him or under his direction...

Section 167. Procedure when investigation cannot be completed in twenty-four hours.
(1) Whenever any person is arrested and detained in custody, and it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within the period of twenty-four hours fixed by section 57...

Section 437. When bail may be taken in case of non-bailable offence.
(1) When any person accused of, or suspected of, the commission of any non-bailable offence is arrested or detained without warrant... he may be released on bail...

Section 438. Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest (Anticipatory Bail).
(1) Where any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction...
